# General Information:
This application utilizes the OpenLayers 3 API. It is an interactive, chronological map of the Grinnell campus, showing how it has been shaped and what buildings it comprised of, historically. The final product will be a webpage, intended to be uploaded onto DASIL’s website, under the grinnell.edu domain and is expected to attract numerous visitors and amateur researchers. At its current state (January 2017,) it still needs upscaling, to include photos of buildings from different eras, mass-produced onto the completed main mechanism. A vital improvement at this stage would be to alter the implementation of building listing. We need a more dynamic mechanism for displaying and hidding buildings' markers on the map, according to their contruction and demolition dates.

# Structure and functionality:
There are three basic components that stand out as distinct from first sight, as one looks at the different directories: "images", meant for the storage of all data that will be included and displayed in the app, e.g. basemaps, building photos, markers; "javascripts", including the code for all functionalities in the app, like controllers for the sliders, parameters and instructions for the API (OpenLayers 3) to render maps and display the necessary items (e.g. load markers and their popups for appropriate year and update from the previous;) lastly, stylesheets has the appropriate information (in .css) for the style of the rendered pages.

# Populating with buildings:
You can find the utility I created to assist in coordinate-logging here: https://youtu.be/sYDfVzyKpj0
When trying to pass text as a string to be interpretted as HTML text, you need to express certain characters differently in order to differentiate from characters used in parsing. For example, if you need to write and display "Women's Gym" as the title, you'd need to type: "Women\'s Gym". This way, you are making it explicit that you intend the apostrophe to be simply another character in the title string.

# Hosting the application:
(Currently "index.html":) The head element contains instructions to load all the essential libraries for the controls (jquery) styles (css) and the API. The body element contains the construction of a "placeholder" div for the info pop-ups that appear when clicking on buildings' markers and a div for the map, ensuring that fullscreen capability will be available (special attention might be needed if an iframe is to be used.) Lastly, the js scripts are loaded in such order that allows for each element's pre-requisite to load first. Each of the "<script src='javascripts/maps/map##.js'></script>" lines loads the respective javascript for the specified year (eg. map14 would be the map of 1914.) Continuing with the example of 1914, I will talk about the structure of these javascripts in the next paragraph.

# The "javascripts/maps" directory:
At the top of every script one finds the initialization of a variable/object (base####) which stands for the campus schematic of that year. For 1914 ("javascripts/maps/map14.js",) base1914 contains the source of the image of the schematic and the coordinates within which it extends. The variable base1914 gets assigned to the current baselayer (line 11: "var baseLayer = base1914;") and in the next line it is added to the map as a new layer. The following three blocks of code relate to the (only) building that is included for the year 1914 (in case more buildings exist for a year, as is naturally anticipated, -unfortunately- three blocks will be needed for every building.) Firstly (first two blocks,) the position and the icon of the marker are assigned. Then, in the third block, the functionality of the pup-up is added. Lastly, the function "fill_markers_of_1914" is defined (lines 33-35) and called (line 37.) You'll find more about the process of filling in the appropriate markers as years are swept-through,in the next paragraph.

# "javascripts/basemap":
After setting up the (bing) map in accordance to the OpenLayers documentation, I define function "reset_and_refill"; it takes as input the number of a year (year) and it (a) removes the previous baselayer (campus schematic) and all other layers (markers) and (b) loads the new year's baselayer (the one to which the user has designated to slide to) and fills in the correct corresponding buildings, by calling fill_markers_of_[year]. Function "reset_and_refill" is called from "javascripts/controls/year_slider.js"
